{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Clipboard Viewer\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 This small application shows the contents of any clipboard. A combo box lets you choose the clipboard to be examined (either from the built-in list, or by entering the name of an arbitrary clipboard); the list of types on the selected clipboard are displayed in a matrix; and clicking on a type in the matrix shows the data for that type in a text view.\
\
The app has three custom classes:\
\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Controller
\f1\b0 \
The central controller object driving the UI and getting data from the clipboard. This class shows:\
- Interacting with the clipboard (getting types list; getting data for a given type; checking to see if pasteboard was changed between accesses).\
- Interacting with the simple UI of the app, including a NSComboBox.\
- Checking at runtime to see if the app is running on 10.1 or later (taking advantage of a  bug fix).\
- Using NSSavePanel as a sheet.\
\

\f0\b LazyDataTextStorage
\f1\b0 \
Subclass of NSTextStorage, used as the backing store for the NSTextView which displays the contents. Upon loading the nib the NSTextStorage for this view is replaced with an instance of LazyDataTextStorage. LazyDataTextStorage hangs on to the NSData which contains the data for the selected type in the selected clipboard; it formats and displays the data in a human readable form lazily, as needed. Note that LazyDataTextStorage is not editable and thus it overrides the editing methods of NSTextStorage to do nothing.\
\

\f0\b LazyDataString (also in file LazyDataTextStorage.m)
\f1\b0 \
A subclass of NSString. This class is used as the string storage for the LazyDataTextStorage.  It holds on to the NSData mentioned above. It advertises a length which is equivalent to the length of the human-readable version of the data, and as it is asked for its contents it formats and returns the appropriate substrings. This happens in the getCharacters:range: method.\
\
\
\
}