{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;\f1\fmodern\fcharset77 Courier;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red170\green170\blue170;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 BlastApp is a simple, "blast everything in sight" type of game, written with Cocoa in Java. The goal of the game is to fly your helicopter through twenty levels of deadly enemy bases, mines, and ships.\
\
If you don't want to deal with actually playing the game, you can enjoy the demo mode accessible through the "Game" menu.\
\
The game is controlled through the numeric keypad. Simply use the keys around the 5 to accelerate in the indicated direction: \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs32 \cf0   7 8 9\
  4 \cf2 5\cf0  6\
  1 2 3\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
For instance, 9 accelerates you forward and upward. You can't go backwards; thus the 4 key slows you down and eventually stops your horizontal motion. Use the 5 or 0 keys on the keypad to "brake"; this will prove very useful.\
\
To shoot bullets, use the "." key in the keypad or the space bar. Your helicopter is equipped with a simple weapon system: It shoots one type of missile, in one fixed direction. You have to learn to be creative.\
\
To start a new game, hit the New button (or the n key). To pause a game and continue a paused game, use the Pause button (or the p key). Hiding the application will also pause the game.\
\
Scoring is simple: You get one point for destroying any enemy object (missiles and bullets don't count). You also get ten bonus points if you end a level in under two minutes. The points acquired during a level are multiplied by the level number. At a score of 1000 you receive a bonus helicopter. Your high score and level are remembered between games.\
\
It's possible to design custom levels for BlastApp; see LevelFileInfo.rtf in the application wrapper.\
\
Happy blasting!\
\
\
\pard\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\li1120\fi-1120\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 BlastApp history:\
\pard\tx1020\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\li1000\fi-1000\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Nov 90:
\f0\b0 	First version of BlastApp, featuring 12 levels, written for NextStep 2.0\

\f2\b Mar 93:
\f0\b0 	NextStep 3.1 version released with more levels\

\f2\b Apr 95:
\f0\b0 	Converted to OpenStep; running on Mach and Windows\

\f2\b Sep 97:
\f0\b0 	Rewritten in Java using the Cocoa APIs; running on Mac OS X Server\

\f2\b Dec 99:
\f0\b0 	Fixed up for Mac OS X and Aqua\
}
