{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf799
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset77 Times-Roman;\f4\fmodern\fcharset77 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info}\pard\tx0\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-1120\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Copyright \'a9 2002-2005 by Apple Computer, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-400\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs30 \cf0 \
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-400\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f2\b\fs48 \cf0 About FWPtP\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f3\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri-980\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 FWPtP is a simple peer-to-peer communucations application. It demonstrates how one might communicate in a peer-to-peer fashion between two or more Macintosh computers.\
\
The project uses the FWLib classes, found in 
\f4 /Developer/Examples/IOKit/firewire/FWLib
\f0 . Feel free to use these in your own projects.\
\
It is sample code and not a finished product; it is only to be used as a guideline to writing your own software and is likely to contain a few bugs. In particular: the protocol is not robust and FWPtP does not notice the removal of remote nodes. (It does however, notice when remote nodes are added to the bus.)\
\
FWPtP will normally require more than one machine to work, however, you can edit the "Deployment" build style (in Project Builder) and change -
\f4 DLOOPBACK_TEST=0
\f0  to 
\f4 -DLOOPBACK_TEST=1
\f0  to build the program in loopback test mode. It can then be used on a single Macintosh.\
\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri-980\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 Note about building this project:
\f0\b0  This project builds FWLib.framework as part of its build process. You must set Xcode to build to a single build location (use the "Customized location" setting in Xcode's Building preferences) rather than the default in project-folder location. You must do this because the FWLib sources are installed to a non-writeable location and by default Xcode tries to build projects in their project folders.}