{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 XMethods Service Finder
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
This is an example of how to use Web Services utilizing AppleScript's SOAP support. It will only run using the "Developer Preview"  (Jaguar) release of Mac OS X. The application uses a couple of Web Services from the XMethods.net web site. The first service returns a list of all of the services available at XMethods, the second one returns details about any given Web Service. This example requires the Jaguar Developer Release or later.\
\
This example also contains an additional method in the TableSupport files (Objective-C) that makes it much faster and easier to populate a data source for a table view given a list of records. The new method is "addListOfRecords:toDataSource:". To use this method make sure that the name of your data columns are the same as the field labels in the records that you are passing to this method. Due to a bug in the Jaguar Developer Release, you will actually need to call the "addListOfRecords:toDataSourceWithID:" variant passing the id of the data source, not the data source itself. \
\
To use the application, simply run it and wait a little bit and the list of servers will be displayed in the table. You can choose to search by Publisher, Service Name, of Description. You can also specify how to search, using "begins with", "contains" or "ends with". To search, simply type in the text that you are searching for and then press then Enter key. The items matching the criteria will be displayed (if any). To return to the full list, delete the contents of the search field and press enter.\
}