{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset77 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww13960\viewh14800\viewkind0
\pard\tx0\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-1120\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Copyright \'a9 2003-2004 by Apple Computer, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-400\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs30 \cf0 \
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-400\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f2\b\fs48 \cf0 Disc Recording Examples\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f3\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri-1180\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This directory contains example applications using the Disc Recording frameworks. The samples are divided up into those using the C API and those using the ObjectiveC API. Below is a list of some of the examples and what each demonstrates:\
\
\pard\tx960\tx4320\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li4300\fi-3360\ri-1180\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf0 	
\f2\b\fs24 audioburntest
\f0\b0 	C API-based audio burning. DRBurnRef, DRTrackRef, DRTrackCallbackProc\
\

\f2\b bulkerase
\f0\b0 	C API-based erasing of RW media. DREraseRef\
\

\f2\b databurntest
\f0\b0 	C API-basd data burning. DRBurnRef, DRFilesystemTrackRef, DRFolderRef\
\

\f2\b drioctl
\f0\b0 	C API-based ioctl dispatch. \
		DRDeviceRef <->bsd /dev node interface\

\f2\b \
DRDataBurnCarbonUI	
\f0\b0 Carbon-based data burning. Demonstrates the use of the Carbon DiscRecording UI interfaces. DRBurnSessio
\f2\b n\
\
DREraseCarbonUI	
\f0\b0 Carbon-based erasing of RW media. Demonstrates the use of the Carbon DiscRecording UI interfaces. DREraseSessio
\f2\b n\
\
AudioBurn	
\f0\b0 ObjectiveC-based audio burning. DRTrack, DRTrackProduction protocol, DRBurn, DRBurnSetupPanel, DRBurnProgressPanel.\

\f2\b \
DataBurn	
\f0\b0 ObjectiveC-based simple data burning. DRFilesystemTrack, DRFolder, DRBurn, DRBurnSetupPanel, DRBurnProgressPanel.\

\f2\b \
EnhancedDataBurn
\f0\b0 	ObjectiveC-based data burning. Illustrates the full features of the content creation classes (DRFSItem, DRFolder, DRFile, DRFilesystemTrack)\
\

\f2\b EnhancedAudioBurn
\f0\b0 	ObjectiveC-based audio burning. Illustrates the features of the audio track API.\

\f2\b \
Eraser	
\f0\b0 ObjectiveC-based erasing of RW media. DRErase, DREraseSetupPanel, DREraseProgressPanel.\

\f2\b \
Verification	
\f0\b0 ObjectiveC-based demonstration of custom verification of data integrity.\
\
\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri-1180\ql\qnatural
\cf0 You may incorporate sample code from these examples into your applications without restriction, although the sample code has been provided "as is" and the responsibility for its operation is completely yours. However, you should not redistribute the source as "Apple Sample Code" if you make changes to it. If you're going to re-distribute the source, we require that you make it clear in the source that, although the code derived from Apple Sample Code, you've since made changes to it.\
}